cli-guideline: Add JSON guideline (#7883)
NixOS/nix: doc/manual/src/contributing/cli-guideline.md

 - **record**: a fixed set of attributes each with their own type. In C++, this
   would be represented by a struct.

It is best not to mix these use cases, as that leads to incompatibilities and
other bugs. For example, adding a record field to a dictionary breaks consumers
that assume all JSON object fields to have the same meaning and type.

This leads to the following guidelines:

 - **The top-level value** (or **root** of the returned data structure) **must be a record**.
   Without this rule, it would be impossible to add per-invocation metadata in
   a manner that doesn't break existing consumers.

 - **The value of a dictionary item must always be a record**. As an example,
   suppose a command returns a dictionary where each key is the name of a store
   type and each value is itself a dictionary representing settings.

 - **List items should be records**. For example, a list of strings is not an
   extensible type, as any additions will break code that expects a list of
   strings.
   If the list is unordered and it has a unique key that is a string, consider
   a dictionary instead of a list. If the order of the items needs to be
   preserved, return a list of records.

>  - **Streaming JSON should return records**. An example of a streaming JSON
>    format is "JSON lines", where multiple JSON values are streamed by putting
>    each on its own line in a text stream. These JSON values can be considered
>    top-level values or list items, and they must be records.

Author: ```suggestion
 - Streaming JSON should return records.
 
   An example of a streaming JSON format is [JSON lines](https://jsonlines.org/), where each line represents a JSON value. These JSON values can be considered top-level values or list items, and they must be records.
```

> Examples:

Author: ```suggestion
### Examples
```

> ```javascript
> // bad: all keys must be assumed to be store implementations
> {
>   "local": { ... },
>   "remote": { ... },
>   "http": { ... }
> }
> // good: extensible and a little bit self-documenting.
> {
>   "storeTypes": { "local": { ... }, ... },
>   // While the dictionary of store types seemed like a complete response,
>   // this little bit of info tells the consumer how to proceed if a store type
>   // is missing. It's not always easy to predict how something will be used, so
>   // let's keep it open.
>   "pluginSupport": true
> }
> ```

Author: ```suggestion

This is bad, because all keys must be assumed to be store implementations.

```json
{
  "local": { ... },
  "remote": { ... },
  "http": { ... }
}
```

This is good, because the it is extensible at the root, and is a little bit self-documenting.
While the dictionary of store types seems like a very complete response at first, a use case may arise that warrants returning a bit of extra information. For example the presence of plugin support may be crucial information for a client to proceed when their desired store type is missing.

```json
{
  "storeTypes": { "local": { ... }, ... },
  "pluginSupport": true
}
```
```

Reviewer: Adding more backticks to makes scoping work. Yay markdown, the non-language that accepts all stings.

> ```javascript
> // bad: a store type can only hold configuration items
> {
>   "storeTypes": {
>     "Local Daemon Store": {
>       "max-connections": {
>         "defaultValue": 1
>         "value": 1
>       },
>       "trusted": {
>         "defaultValue": false,
>         "value": true
>       },
>       ...
>     }
>   }
> }
> // good: a store type can be extended with other metadata, such as its URI scheme
> {
>   "storeTypes": {
>     "Local Daemon Store": {
>       "uriScheme": "daemon",
>       "settings": {
>         "max-connections": {
>           "defaultValue": 1
>           "value": 1
>         },
>         ...
>       },
>     ...
>   },
>   ...
> }
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
The following is not extensible, because all store type fields have to be configuration items.
```json
{
  "storeTypes": {
    "Local Daemon Store": {
      "max-connections": {
        "defaultValue": 1
        "value": 1
      },
      "trusted": {
        "defaultValue": false,
        "value": true
      },
      ...
    }
  }
}
```

This is improved by making the store types into records, allowing other information to be added, such as the store URI scheme.

```json
{
  "storeTypes": {
    "Local Daemon Store": {
      "uriScheme": "daemon",
      "settings": {
        "max-connections": {
          "defaultValue": 1
          "value": 1
        },
        ...
      },
    ...
  },
  ...
}
```
```

Reviewer: This example doesn't convince me. The store type already is a record. How would you know to nest settings in another record when designing the first version?

Author: The idea here is that the settings form a dictionary, but that's actually a really bad example, because settings aren't _by nature_ a dictionary. Fundamentally, they do have keys that _are_ statically known, and their values have different types! The fact that we treat all settings as equal stringly typed values just shows that the settings system is bad. I'll look for different examples that don't involve the settings.

Reviewer: Let's just remove it, I think the document makes its point clear enough. If people have questions we can still add stuff. Please merge the suggestions and then the PR.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ```javascript
> // bad: not extensible
> { "outputs": [ "out" "bin" ] }
> // bad: order matters but is lost, as many JSON parsers don't preserve item order.
> { "outputs": { "bin": {}, "out": {} } }
> // good:
> { "outputs": [ { "outputName": "out" }, { "outputName": "bin" } ] }
> ```

Author: ```suggestion

The following representation is bad because it is not extensible.

```json
{ "outputs": [ "out" "bin" ] }
```

However, the following representation is also bad, because the order of outputs must be preserved. The first item is the default output. Deriving this information from the outputs ordering is not great, but this is how it happens in the language. While it is possible for a JSON parser to preserve the order of fields, we can not rely on this capability to be present in all JSON libraries.

```
{ "outputs": { "bin": {}, "out": {} } }
```

The following representation is extensible and preserves the ordering.

```
{ "outputs": [ { "outputName": "out" }, { "outputName": "bin" } ] }
```
```
